blog: add Fluentd v1.18.0 release announcement (#335)
fluent/fluentd-website: content/blog/20241129_fluentd-v1.18.0-has-been-released.md

These are used internally to support zero-downtime-restart.

Please see [#4661](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/4661) for more information.

### Config File Syntax: Extend Embedded Ruby Code support for Hashes and Arrays

The [Embedded Ruby Code](https://docs.fluentd.org/configuration/config-file#embedded-ruby-code) has been supported in configuration.
In this release, we have extended the syntax to allow the use of Embedded Ruby Code in Hashes and Arrays.

Example:

```
key1 ["foo","#{1 + 1}"] # Embedded Ruby Code in Array syntax
key2 {"foo":"#{1 + 1}"} # Embedded Ruby Code in Hash syntax
```

Result:

```
key1 ["foo","2"]
key2 {"foo":"2"}
```

Please note that this is not backward compatible, although we assume that this will never affect to actual existing configs.

In case the behavior changes unintentionally, you can disable this feature by surrounding the entire value with single quotes.

Example:

```
key '{"foo":"#{1 + 1}"}'
```

### transport tls: Use `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default

> We have changed the flags to `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default for server the certification verification.

Reviewer: It might better to explain "why" a bit.
When client_cert_auth is false (default), VERIFY_PEER causes troublesome, so it was changed to SSL_VERIFY_NONE.

Author: https://github.com/fluent/fluentd-website/pull/335/commits/3fc04afccd1991c9d568999603be1e314baf2817

### transport tls: Add `ensure_fips` option to ensure FIPS compliant mode

We have added `ensure_fips` option in `transport` section in config to ensure FIPS compliant mode.

> By default, it has disabled.

Reviewer: It might ambiguous explanation.

If ensure_fips is false, it doesn't care OpenSSL fips_mode at all.

This option is introduced to detect inconsistency wether  OpenSSL FIPS compliant mode is enabled correctly or not. 
If user want to use OpenSSL FIPS compliant mode  but it is not available actually,  ensure_fips true abort it.

Author: https://github.com/fluent/fluentd-website/pull/335/commits/d11caa7027feffd1f18f34601d29d091299f765e

# Fluentd v1.18.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.18.0 on 2024-11-29. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1180---20241129).

This release is a new release of v1.18 series.
In this release, we added zero-downtime-restart as a key feature, enhanced some features and fixed bugs.

## Enhancement

### Add zero-downtime-restart feature

In this release, we have added the feature to update the Fluentd process with zero downtime for Linux and macOS environments (not supported on Windows).

> Fluentd had a feature called by graceful reload that reloads the configuration without restart.
> However, the graceful reload feature has a problem that causes a downtime, it cannot receive the data from network using `in_udp`, `in_tcp`, and `in_syslog` plugins during reloading configuration.
> This feature could only be used to reload the configuration, and could not be used to upgrade Fluentd.
> We think it had been difficult to use in a production environment by these restrictions.
> 
> The zero-downtime-restart feature has been introduced to solve the problem of the graceful reload.
> This feature supports Fluentd upgrades and configuration reloads with zero downtime.
> 
> This feature can be used by sending a `SIGUSR2` signal to the supervisor process,
> and this changes behavior `SIGUSR2` from graceful reload to zero-downtime-restart feature on Linux and macOS environments.

Reviewer 2: How about something like this?

* From the user's perspective, it would be easier to read if there was an explanation of how to use this first.
* It seems we could simplify the explanation about the conventional reloading feature.

```suggestion
You can use this feature to reload config and restart Fluentd gracefully.

You can use this feature by sending a `SIGUSR2` signal to the supervisor process,
and this changes behavior `SIGUSR2` from graceful reload to zero-downtime-restart feature on Linux and macOS environments.

You can still use the conventional graceful reloading feature by directly sending `SIGUSR2` to each worker process or using the RPC feature.
However, it had some limitations and issues (Please see [#4624](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/4624) for details).
So, we recommend using this new feature for graceful reloading/restarting unless there is a particular reason.
```

### Config File Syntax: Extend Embedded Ruby Code support for Hashes and Arrays

The [Embedded Ruby Code](https://docs.fluentd.org/configuration/config-file#embedded-ruby-code) has been supported in configuration.
In this release, we have extended the syntax to allow the use of Embedded Ruby Code in Hashes and Arrays.

Example:

```
key1 ["foo","#{1 + 1}"] # Embedded Ruby Code in Array syntax
key2 {"foo":"#{1 + 1}"} # Embedded Ruby Code in Hash syntax
```

Result:

```
key1 ["foo","2"]
key2 {"foo":"2"}
```

Please note that this is not backward compatible, although we assume that this will never affect to actual existing configs.

In case the behavior changes unintentionally, you can disable this feature by surrounding the entire value with single quotes.

Example:

```
key '{"foo":"#{1 + 1}"}'
```

### transport tls: Use `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default

We have changed the flags to `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default for server the certification verification.

In the previous versions, it had been necessary to set `client_cert_auth false` and `insecure true` to apply SSL_VERIFY_NONE.
This was an inappropriate combination of settings.

> In this release, it can make it possible to apply `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` with just `client_cert_auth false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, it can make it possible to apply `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` with just `client_cert_auth false` (default).
```

Author: https://github.com/fluent/fluentd-website/pull/335/commits/444d2f0d2be958829b294a571ea7b5e496069536
